Title: My Development Stack (2011) 
Date: 2011-08-20 
Tags: python, dev, flask, javascript
Slug: dev-stack-2011

A friend asked me a few days ago what I was using to develop a project I have been working on in my spare time.  This then lead to the question of what tools I used on my Mac to handle the development.  So after a little thinking, here was my answer.

At our office we primarily use Django, which I love.  For my personal/outside of work projects I have been using Flask.  Flask is a bit lighter weight and quite portable.  This is important because I have been using AppEngine for a couple of recent projects and Flask plays quite nicely on AppEngine (here is a blog post explaining the basics of how to make it work, I have modified slightly to used the packages in zip files instead of uncompressed).  Overall this is the basic stack:

Backend = Python (using Flask), WTForms and Google AppEngine
Frontend = jQuery, jQueryUI, Less, and have been playing with Twitter Bootstrap

On my Mac I use a number of software packages to make life easier:

* iTerm2 - Replaces the absolutely CRAPPY terminal that comes with Mac.
* Coda - just recently started using this for code/text editing.  I still find myself using TextMate and even vim for some things, but overall I like Coda.
* LESS.app - Just makes running/managing Less that much easier.
* AppEngine SDK - Again, makes life easy when dealing with AppEngine.
* CyberDuck - I know that Coda has FTP built in, just haven’t started using it yet.
* Homebrew - how anyone could live without this package manager is beyond me.
* Chrome, Firefox, Firebug - Browsing, testing, debugging things.
* AquaData Studio - for those times I am not using AppEngine.
* Remember the Milk - helps with my tasks.
* Mercurial / BitBucket - This is where I keep all of my code, I HIGHLY recommend mercurial for version control (git is also quite nice, as well as github).
* So there you go, my basic stack.  There is more software for sure, but this is the majority of my day to day use.  Recommendations are always welcome.
